Add documentation on platform dependencies (#10313)
composer/composer: doc/articles/composer-platform-dependencies.md

## Plugin package `composer-plugin-api`

Composer provides the possibility to write [plugin](plugins.md) packages.
For that Composer provides a set of APIs. These APIs are versioned as well, but every Composer
version automatically bumps the version for this API as well. This is done, because may changes
on the Composer code base that are released as new Composer version, do *not* change the API for
Composer plugin packages. E.g. In Composer version `2.3.12`, the `composer-plugin-api` version
could still be `2.2.0`.

## Runtime package `composer-runtime-api`

When applications that are installed with Composer are run (either on CLI or through a web request),
the first thing they do is to require the `vendor/autoload.php` file.
Such executions are considered as the application "runtime".

Starting with Composer 2.0, [additional features](../07-runtime.md) (besides registering the class autoloader) were introduced.

Similar to `composer-plugin-api`, not every Composer release, adds new runtime features, thus the versioning of this
platform package is as well bumped independently from Composer versioning. 

## Composer package `composer`

> Starting with Composer 2.2.0, a new platform package is added called just `composer`, which represents the exact
> Composer version that is currently executed. Packages using this package as dependency, can therefore from now
> on also depend on (or conflict with) individual Composer versions, to cover some more edge cases, where neither
> the `composer-runtime-api` version nor the `composer-plugin-api` was changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with Composer 2.2.0, a new platform package called `composer` is available, which represents the exact
Composer version that is executed. Packages depending on this platform package, can therefore depend on (or conflict
with) individual Composer versions, to cover edge cases, where neither the `composer-runtime-api` version nor the
`composer-plugin-api` was changed.
```

Since this option is introduced with Composer 2.2.0, it is also recommended to add a `composer-plugin-api` depedency

> to at least `^2.2.0`, to get a more meaningful error message with older Composer versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because this option was introduced with Composer 2.2.0, it is recommended to add a `composer-plugin-api` depedency on
at least `>=2.2.0`, to provide a more meaningful error message for users running older Composer versions.
```

In general it is recommended to depend on `composer-plugin-api` or `composer-runtime-api` (whatever covers the intention best),

> over depending on concrete Composer versions using the `composer` platform package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general it is always recommended to depend on `composer-plugin-api` or `composer-runtime-api` over depending on concrete Composer versions using the `composer` platform package.
```

To see the complete list of platform packages available in your environment
you can run `php composer.phar show --platform` (or `show -p` for short).

The differences between the various Composer platform packages are explained further in this document.

## Plugin package `composer-plugin-api`

You can modify Composer's behavior with [plugin](plugins.md) packages. Composer provides a set of versioned APIs for
plugins. Because internal Composer changes may **not** change the plugin APIs, the API version may not increase every
time the Composer version increases. E.g. In Composer version `2.3.12`, the `composer-plugin-api` version could still
be `2.2.0`.

## Runtime package `composer-runtime-api`

When applications which were installed with Composer are run (either on CLI or through a web request), they require the
`vendor/autoload.php` file, typically as one of the first lines of executed code. Invocations of the Composer
autoloader are considered the application "runtime".

Starting with version 2.0, Composer makes [additional features](../07-runtime.md) (besides registering the class autoloader) available to the application runtime environment.

> Similar to `composer-plugin-api`, not every Composer release, adds new runtime features,
> thus the version of `composer-runtimeapi` s also increased independently from Composer's version. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to `composer-plugin-api`, not every Composer release adds new runtime features,
thus the version of `composer-runtimeapi` is also increased independently from Composer's version. 
```

## Composer package `composer`

> Starting with Composer 2.2.0, a new platform package called `composer` is available, which represents the exact
> Composer version that is executed. Packages depending on this platform package, can therefore depend on (or conflict
> with) individual Composer versions, to cover edge cases, where neither the `composer-runtime-api` version nor the
> `composer-plugin-api` was changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with Composer 2.2.0, a new platform package called `composer` is available, which represents the exact
Composer version that is executed. Packages depending on this platform package can therefore depend on (or conflict
with) individual Composer versions to cover edge cases where neither the `composer-runtime-api` version nor the
`composer-plugin-api` was changed.
```

> Because this option was introduced with Composer 2.2.0, it is recommended to add a `composer-plugin-api` dependency on
> at least `>=2.2.0`, to provide a more meaningful error message for users running older Composer versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because this option was introduced with Composer 2.2.0, it is recommended to add a `composer-plugin-api` dependency on
at least `>=2.2.0` to provide a more meaningful error message for users running older Composer versions.
```

> In general, it is always recommended depending on `composer-plugin-api` or `composer-runtime-api`
> over depending on concrete Composer versions using the `composer` platform package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, depending on `composer-plugin-api` or `composer-runtime-api` is always recommended
over depending on concrete Composer versions with the `composer` platform package.
```
